A mysterious fortune teller warns Billy & Jimmy Lee about the rise of a powerful enemy in Egypt. Since the Lee brothers are looking for a true challenge to put their martial arts skills to the ultimate test, they agree to face this mysterious new enemy. They embark on a world quest - joining up with new allies in the process - and try to lay claim to the famous 'Rosetta Stone'.

The 3rd and final arcade entry of the Double Dragon series (not counting the later Neo-Geo fighting game based on the movie) features a completely gameplay system and graphics from the first two installments. The game can played by up to 2 or 3 players, depending on the cabinet and settings. The 3rd player takes control of a yellow-clad Lee brother named Sonny, who is exclusive to this game. Techniques from the previous games such as the hair grab and the elbow punch are gone, but new ones are added such as the belly-to-back throw and the back-to-back hurricane kick, as well as the ability to dash by tapping the joystick left or right twice.

The game features weapon shops that allows the player to purchase power-ups by inserting additional tokens. The power-ups differ between stages differ between stages and are available as followed.
Extra Guys - Allows the player to control a new character who replaces the current fighter when he dies. There are three character types in addition to the Lee brothers.
The Urquidez Brothers (Roney, Sunny, Jonny) -  Tall European grapplers. They have the most energy of the four character types.  Up to three fighters can be have in reserve.
The Chin Brothers (Seimei, Taimei, Sinmei) - Chubby Chinese men with powerful attacks.
The Oyama Brothers (Masao, Kunio, Akira) - Japanese karate masters dressed in gis specializing in speedy attacks.
? Tricks - The hurricane kick and the one-armed stand head butt are added to the player's move set. If the player's current character dies, then the new techniques will be inherited by the next character in reserve, if there is one.
Weapons - A nunchaku or sword are given player. Only the Lees can have purchase and wield weapons.
Energy - Restores the current character's life to 150%.
Power-Up - Increases the character's agility.

There are 5 stages in the game:

Mission 1 - America - The enemies in this stage are typical thugs and bikers. The first area takes place in a downtown area of city. After defeating the first wave of enemies, the player will enter a warehouse, where they encounter bikers that will try to ru