Arcade Video game published 37 years ago:

Arabian (c) 1983 Sun Electronics.

You'll have 1001 hours of fun with the ARABIAN upright game! You are the adventurous Arabian prince, and your goal is to rescue the princess from her palace. Use the joystick control and the KICK button to move through perilous passages. Sail the seas, crawl in caves, and fly magic carpets - you'll be challenged by 4 increasingly hard waves of play! Score points on the way for picking up the letters in A-R-A-B-I-A-N, and get a bonus if you pick them up in order!

Arabian is a 'video book' with a happy ending! The attract mode introduces the story, and animated storybook 'pages' let you experience the Arabian Prince's adventures. Use the 8-position joystick to jump, super-jump, walk, crawl, or climb in all directions. Tap either KICK button (are you right- or left-handed?) to kick your enemies out of the way.

The player controls a young Arabian Prince who must rescue his Princess from the castle tower where she is being held prisoner. Evil Genies in brass jugs, swooping Rocs, and purple ghostly creatures called Oscars will try to stop him along the way. The Prince scores points for kicking Oscars or Rocs, picking up lettered jugs, or spelling A-R-A-B-I-A-N. The Prince loses a life when he's hit by a smokeball, falls off a ledge, flying carpet or vine, or gets caught (touched) by a Genie, Oscar, or Roc.

The Prince must successfully complete 4 levels to rescue the Princess (4 levels or 'pages' equals 1 section). Each level is introduced with the turning of a page, which shows a distant view of the upcoming playfield. Each playfield has 7 lettered jugs that must be picked up before the player can advance to the next level, but he must avoid or KICK evil Genies, Oscars, and Rocs that will try to stop him.

Page 1. Page l turns, revealing a ship. The Prince must work his way to the crow's nest at the top of the mast before the vessel reaches the shore. As he climbs up the rigging, Rocs and Oscars dive at him in an attempt to knock him down. The Prince must KICK them out of the way to survive. While contending with these rascals, he must also try to collect all the jugs with letters on them. Beware! The jugs hold devilish Genies which can appear at any time and throw smokeballs at the Prince. Once a Genie has materialized, the Prince's kicking power cannot be used against him and he is unable to collect the jug so he should avoid the Genie. However, the Prince may collect the jug whil