Arcade Video game published 37 years ago:

Krull (c) 1983 Gottlieb.

The left joystick controls the movement of the player character, Colwyn. He can be moved in any one of eight directions. The right joystick controls the movement of the player's weapon, the glaive. It can be thrown in any one of eight directions. Four glaives can be in flight at one time and will return to Colwyn with a boomerang-type action. The one and two player select buttons are also located on the panel.

Krull consists of five subgames:
1. The Mountain Game.
2. The Swamp Game.
3. The Fortress Game.
4. The Hexagon Game.
5. The Beast Game.

The player must accomplish a task in each of the five games with eight levels of difficulty in each. All eight levels can be reached in one task based on the time spent performing that task (amount of time spent on that subgame). The total number of lethal characters on the screen at one time increases as the levels increase.

FROM THE SKY WILL COME THE BLACK FORTRESS. FROM THE FORTRESS WILL COME THE SLAYERS, TO DEVOUR THE PLANET OF KRULL. THEN SHALL A GIRL OF ANCIENT NAME BECOME QUEEN, AND THE KING SHE CHOOSES SHALL RULE THE PLANET.

The planet Krull is threatened by the Beast. His army of Slayers has brought terror to the land. Colwyn must stop this terror and save the land and its people. On the day Colwyn is to wed the Princess Lyssa, the Slayers, army of the Beast, kidnap her to become the Beast's bride. Colwyn must reach the Black Fortress and reclaim his Princess. He who marries the Princess shall be king. The Beast must not be allowed to rule the planet.

A prophet acquaints Colwyn with the magical properties of the glaive, a five-bladed sword, which Colwyn must acquire. To accomplish this task, he must climb the mountain and collect the five individual blades of the glaive in order to assemble the weapon. The blade is picked up by touching Colwyn to the blade. Boulders are fatal and must be avoided. The weapon joystick is not utilized in this subgame. The player is awarded 1,000 points for each blade picked up. Points are also awarded for placing Colwyn in a dangerous position in front of one or more boulders.

During his travels to discover the Black Fortress, Colwyn comes upon an army of eight men that he befriends and recruits to help him in his quest to destroy the Beast so that Krull can be safe from his evil.

With no intentions of losing his newly acquired bride without bloodshed, the Beast orders an army of Slayers to stop Colwyn 