Arcade Video game published 38 years ago:

Q*bert (c) 1982 Gottlieb.

The object of the Q*bert game is to change the color of the top of the cubes to the Destination Color indicated at the upper-left corner of the screen (below Player 1's score) by hopping onto them. When all the cubes in the pyramid have been changed to the Destination Color, the screen will advance to the next round, with the player-controlled Q*bert character starting back on the top cube. At the beginning of each level, there will be a short demonstration cycle with Q*bert hopping around four cubes to explain to the player the play action of each level. Each level consists of four rounds. The current level number and round number is displayed at the upper-right corner of the screen (below Player 2's score in a 2-player game).

Gameplay starts with Q*bert appearing at the top of the pyramid. The joystick will move Q*bert from cube to cube by hopping in any of four diagonal directions. Q*bert can move anywhere on the pyramid, but jumping off will kill him. Hopping onto a rotating disk will take Q*bert back to the top of the pyramid. In the first two rounds of play, Q*bert will have to avoid touching the red and purple balls. These deadly objects drop randomly onto the second-from-the-top row of the pyramid and bounce downwards. The red balls will fall off the bottom, but the purple ball will stop at the bottom and hatch into Coily, the snake which chases Q*bert. To get rid of Coily, lure him to the edge, then jump unto a disk. The disk will take Q*bert back to the top and Coily will fall off, awarding 500 points and clearing the board of all other 'nasty' characters.

Starting at the third round of play, other 'nasty' characters come into play. The green characters or objects are safe to hop onto and will award points. All other 'nasty' characters are deadly to touch. In the third round the red balls will stop falling, but two purple characters named Ugg and Wrong Way will appear at the lower portion of the pyramid and travel sideways and upwards (Ugg is the one with the snout moving from right to left on the right face of the cubes, and Wrong Way is the one with the big eyes moving from left to right on the left face of the cubes). They will not chase Q*bert, but will move randomly to get in Q*bert's way. In the third round and every round after, based on an internal timer, a green ball will appear and bounce down from the top of the pyramid. Hopping Q*bert onto the green ball will awar