Arcade Video game published 42 years ago:

Star Fire (c) 1978 Exidy.

Exidy STARFIRE is a single player game which simulates combat between space-going fighters. The player can control the speed and direction of his fighter and attack enemy fighters with his lasers; the enemy fighters shoot fireballs at the player. The object of play is to accumulate points by destroying enemy fighters. A player can buy extra playtime during play and continue the game he is playing, as long as he has any time left; he earns bonus playtime each time he exceeds a bonus score. The game keeps track of 20 high scores - one score for each number of coins accumulated. The initials of high scoring players are displayed during the game's attract mode.

Play Mode - The screen shows a crosshair gun sight at the center of a background of stars; enemy ships move across this background. The background moves as the player works the controls, but the crosshairs always stay at the center of the screen.

The bottom of the screen has several indicators and a message panel.  A thrust indicator shows the player's speed and forward-reverse direction, and a long range scan indicator shows the presence and direction of any enemy ships off the main screen. Other indicators show the player's current score and fuel level. The message panel tells whether the player has hit an enemy ship or been hit himself, whether his laser is ready to fire, etc.

Enemy fighters move in all directions on the screen, getting larger or smaller as they move toward or away from the player. Bonus Exidy pirate ships move from left to right across the screen, and always stay the same size. The fighters and pirate ships come in three colors: blue, green, and gold (actually orange). Blue fighters are worth 10 points, green fighters 20 points, and gold fighters 40 points; all bonus Exidy pirate ships are worth 50 points.

When a target (an enemy fighter or bonus Exidy pirate ship) comes near the crosshairs, two gauge scales appear - one from the right side and one from the bottom of the screen.  At the same time, a warning beep sounds. If the player maneuvers the target into the crosshairs, it is locked-on - the enemy is frozen in the crosshairs for several seconds, and the player can easily destroy it with his laser. When the player locks onto the enemy, a second warning beep sounds, a 'LOCKED!' message appears on the message panel, and the target flashes in the crosshairs.

Press the laser fire button, and four simulated la