Championship Pool is a pool game where players can 8-ball or 9-ball pool tournament that starts off with the BCA Regional Championship where the player must defeat 32 opponents in a first to four games match. If the player loses against any of the 32 opponents, they are then eliminated from the tournament. The winner of that then goes onto the World Championship.

All of the gameplay is done from a top down view of the table. The player moves an icon to indicate location they want to hit the ball too. To aid in the aiming, a ghost of the cue ball and the first ball that is hit is repetitively played out to show the path of the hit ball. With the all the shots there is a very small margin of error, but this is only notable when a long shot is played or a shot from a sharp angle and the ghost balls will randomly play out all the possible occurrences. The player can also change the power and spin of the played shot with the ghost balls will updating to show the outcome of those changes. 

There are 4 different game modes that can be chosen, each with a different set of pool games. The different game modes and there games are:

1. Tournament: The player must defeat 32 different players in a first to four knockout tournament in 8-ball or 9-ball pool before going on to the World Championship. During the tournament the opponent is never actually is seen playing there shots. Instead, when it is the opponents turn, it cuts to an image of the player with a caption and then returns the control to the player with some balls removed and moved. This way the opponent can finish the game within 4 turns regardless of if they where snookered or not.

2. Challenge:  It has many different pool games that are played, all with one player without an opponent. The games are:
14.1 Challenge ? After the break the ball is placed anywhere at the top of the table behind the line. At that point, the player can hit any ball but once the fails to hit a ball in a hole the game is over. If there is only one ball left on the table the rest of the balls are re-racked and play continues. At the end score is given based on the number of balls that where hit in the holes. The score are tallied up over 5 games to get the total score.

Eight Ball - After the break the ball is placed anywhere at the top of the table behind the line. The player must hit all the chosen set of balls (stripes or solids) and the 8-ball in one turn.  The score is based on how many balls where hit in.

Nine Ball - After 