Viewpoint is an arcade isometric shooter, released in 1992 by SNK for the Neo-Geo arcade platform. By default, 1P and 2P can only play one after another; in the Service Mode though, simultaneous gameplay can be enabled.
 The Sony PlayStation version, developed by Visual Concepts, featured re-done visuals and sound while the gameplay itself remains true to the original game with level layouts and boss/enemy patterns remaining the same.
 Viewpoint is a top-down orthographic perspective game in the tradition of Zaxxon. The PlayStation and Saturn versions feature 3D rendered graphics with texture maps, unlike the other versions which primarily feature shaded polygons.
 One or two players (in hot-seat or cooperative mode) control a spaceship equipped with a laser cannon which can be charged (by holding the shooting button down) for a stronger blast. Besides the main weapon, three special weapons are available: a wall of fire which wipes the screen up in a wave, a nova-like blast and a circle of spherical-green homing missiles.
 Viewpoint features six robot riddled worlds set throughout a three-quarter perspective. Growing in complexity as the game progresses, the levels have been rendered with computer-generated SGI textures, enemies, and various explosion effects. At the end of certain levels, players will square off against large mechanized bosses.
 Far into the future of mankind's existence, the world is being threatened by its own mechanical creations. After being banished to the 31st sector of the galaxy, the Ralfedacc has began orbiting around Earth. Those in the death orb more commonly known as the Director of the Dark have created destructive robots that will be deployed on the seemingly helpless planet; their ultimate objective is revenge.
 Naturally, you've been selected as the Byupo probe pilot that will save the world; no pressure, eh? A Byupo is a small yet powerful fighter ship capable of mass devastation; it can pick up and use various weapons and utilize special items. Your mission objective is short and to the point: pilot your craft with a quick trigger finger throughout six key battle areas.
 The Byupo can obtain sidecars, or helper items and/or weapons, during each levels. Players can utilize homing bombs that targets enemies in clusters, the wall of flame that emits from a dropped fire bomb, and a wave bomb that sends out a lightning attack. Additionally, power bubbles equip your shooter with temporary shields and the bonus Byupo acts as an