Over the past few years, we’ve watched Jill Evans grow from a fresh-out-of-baking-school student to a world-class culinary celeb. Now, Jill confronts her greatest challenge yet - planning her dream wedding – in Cake Mania® 3, the highly anticipated follow-up to one of the most popular casual games of all-time!
                    As Jill nervously prepares for her long anticipated wedding day, disaster strikes when a mysterious, long-forgotten time bender crashes to the ground and shatters into pieces. As Jill’s family and friends rush to pick up the scattered shards, they are suddenly sent hurtling through time.  Now, to ensure her wedding goes off without a hitch, Jill herself must travel to remote periods in time - from Ancient Egypt and Revolutionary France, to an unknown future where anything is possible - and work her cake-making magic on a wide variety of locals in order to get herself and her guests back before the ceremony begins!
                    
                    Access to new bonus levels, customers and outfits with Sandlot Connect
                    Over 350 possible level combinations
                    More than 30 hilarious new customers
                    All-new power-ups, kitchen upgrades and customizable bakeries
                    
                     
                    
                    After re-opening the Evans Bakery, and sending her grandparents on an exotic Hawaiian cruise, Jill is back in an all-new, out-of-this-world series of adventures! Help Jill’s college friend Risha in her posh, northwestern, rooftop bakery; rescue her old flame, Jack, in his underwater theme park located on the ocean floor, or wind up in 4 other far-flung bakery locations, each with its own unique layout!
                    What awaits Jill? Fame? Fortune? Love? In Cake Mania® 2, you choose which path Jill pursues, with each decision leading to new baking challenges and dilemmas. With 204 levels of baking and frosting madness, 6 different possible endings and a branching, non-linear storyline, it’s your decision to make in Cake Mania 2!
                    
                    Customize Jill’s bakeries with 50 unique kitchen upgrades 
                    18 all-new quirky, demanding customers, ranging from Federal Agents to mysterious Aliens, keep Jill on her toes
                    10 deliciously different cake styles with 6 fabulous frostings
                    8 wild cake toppers for earning extra cash
                