Superman Returns is a video game based on the movie of the same name, It was developed by EA Tiburon and published by Electronic Arts in conjunction with Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment and DC Comics. It features a story arc from the movie, which was released on June 28, 2006, and more than 60 years of comic book content. EA Tiburon, known for its Madden NFL game series, has claimed that the game combines strong creative vision and compelling new technology to deliver a powerful and emotional gaming experience to their consumers, and they will experience a real sense of flying while mastering Superman's superhero powers to save Metropolis. 
 
In the game, Superman combats Bizarro, who does not appear in the movie, as well as other classic villains (including Mongul) as well as being able to play as Bizarro for a short period of time in one of the many minigames inserted into the game. The game was produced for the Xbox 360 as well as the Playstation 2 and Nintendo DS. A port for the PlayStation Portable was planned but cancelled due to it not having enough power to support the game. 
 
Electronic Arts and Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment secured an all-star cast for the voices in Superman Returns: The Videogame. The game features the voice and likeness of Brandon Routh(Superman/Clark Kent) as well as the voices of Kevin Spacey (Lex Luthor), Kate Bosworth (Lois Lane), Parker Posey (Kitty Kowalski) and Sam Huntington (Jimmy Olsen), all reprising their roles from the Warner Bros. Pictures film directed by Bryan Singer. 
 
The Nintendo DS version also features games based on the film, but they are fundamentally different from the console title. The games were delayed from their original release date (set to coincide with the theatrical release of the film) due to design complications and issues with polish on the console game. The handheld games were delayed in order to preserve a simultaneous release with non-handheld SKUs. The games were ultimately released on November 22, 2006 in the United States and November 30 in Australia, to coincide with the DVD release of Superman Returns.