The action takes place over several screens: Deserts; Forests; the Apes' Village; a River Crossing; Subterranean Caverns; and the climactic Statue of Liberty scene from the film. There are three different kinds of apes in this game: chimpanzees - these little guys are harmless and can be touched without fear; orangutans are a bit bigger and a lot more dangerous than the chimpanzees, touching them will get you captured; gorillas are the most dangerous of all the apes, not only can they capture you, but they can shoot at you as well.nnYou must keep an eye on your 'life energy' (which is diminished whenever you are shot) and 'escapes' (which allow you to escape the cages, but also cost you life energy). When the life energy hits zero, the game is over. In a worst-case scenario, you may get trapped in a cage after you've run out of escapes, unable to do anything but wait until the apes shoot you to death. Your ultimate goal is to reach the Statue of Liberty level, at which point your health and escape ability will be recharged, and the game starts over at a higher difficulty level.nn-The Forest/The RivernnYou start out in a forest with several apes after you. You can shoot at the apes by pressing the fire button, but since they just keep on coming it's best to run for it. There are also pits scattered throughout the forest, falling into one of these pits will cause your life to deplete rapidly. Your goal is to cross the river to the south - only going south will bring you towards the Forbidden Zone. Touching the river isn't deadly, and you can move through without any trouble - it may be that the river was going to be deadly and a bridge put across it in the early prototype.nn-The Village/PrisonnnIf you touched an Orangutan or a Gorilla you end up here. When captured, you're treated to a newly-added full-screen graphic of a man behind bars. You need to be extra careful in the village since the area is cramped, and there are lots of apes roaming around. It's very easy to escape and be captured again right away. You'll also want to escape from the cage as quickly as possible since the apes will constantly hit you while you're trapped in the cage. Moving south will bring you to the desert.nn-The DesertnnAfter the village you'll encounter a large featureless desert (formerly the ?Forbidden Zone'). There are more apes here than in any other zone, so you'll have to be on your guard. Moving south will bring you to the caverns.nnThe CavernsnnThe caverns are the last o