Shooting Arcade is one of only two 2600 games to use the light gun (Sentinel was the other), but was never released.  This is a shame because Shooting Arcade is a creative light gun target game similar to the Point Blank series, and would have been unique among 2600 games.  Interestingly it appears that Shooting Arcade was not developed in the US, but rather in Mexico by a company called Heuristica.  How Axlon was invovled is unknown, but they may have simply sub-contracted the game out to Heuristica instead of doing it themselves.
Shooting Arcade is really made up of six different scenes that are put together in different orders depending on the level you've selected.  Each scene has its own unique theme, rules, and objective, making Shooting Arcade essentially six games in one.  Depending on which skill level you choose, the scene's attributes change to make it more or less difficult and the timer at the bottom of the screen counts down more or less quickly.  The status bar at the top of the screen shows the number of shots you have left, your current difficulty level, and the number of targets left.  You start each level out with a limited amount of ammunition depending on the difficulty level (40, 10, 5, 2, or 1).  You can continue from the last screen you completed an infinite amount of times by simply pressing the reset button.  This is a handy feature as the game get very hard at the later levels...
The six scenes are:
Colored Squares - Here you must shoot out all the colored squares before the timer runs out.  Starting on level 1 if you shoot and empty area where a square would be, a new square appear and you'll have to shoot it again!  On level 4 the squares will all disappear after you take your first shot, and you must memorize where all the squares were before you start.  The squares can briefly be seen when you take a shot which helps a bit, but they will reappear if you shoot the same area twice (as in level 1).  Every square you successfully hit will give you two extra shots.
Shooting Gallery - This scene is reminiscent of Imagic's Shooting Gallery cartridge.  Here you must shoot various carnival targets such as glass pipes, ducks, milk jugs, colored squares, and dinosaurs?  The targets in the center area move at a fair clip (depending on the difficulty level) and the pipes at the top can be very difficult to hit making this scene one of the toughest in the game.  Speaking of squares, you can shoot the colored squares at the bottom of the sc