Stunt Cycle was one of Atari's first "Non-Pong" standalone consoles, and was based off the Atari coin-op of the same name.  The console consisted of a set of handlebar grips, which you could use to make your cycle move faster or slower and a fire button used to make you jump.  The gameplay revolves around making your "Stunt Cycle" jump over cars (ala Evil Knievel) and land safely on the other side without flying off the end of the screen.  Your cycle starts at the top of the screen, where you are given two "rows" of screen space to build up speed before hitting the ramp at the bottom.  The "trick" to the game is to build up enough speed to jump over the cars, but not too much that you go crashing off the edge of the screen.  If you successfully make the jump the row of cars gets wider and you have to go back and jump it again.
It is interesting to note that the arcade version has your cycle move through 'tubes' on the sides of the screen between rows whereas the home console version does not.  This means that in the arcade your cycle moves left to right across the first row, then RIGHT to LEFT across the second row before moving left to right again on the bottom.  This is a bit more realistic (well as realistic as motorcycle blasting through invisible tubes on the sides of the screen can be anyway) but can mess with your head if you're not expecting it.  The home console and 2600 port simply has the player 'warp' back to the left side of the screen when he reaches the end, meaning you always travel left to right on each row.
Sometime in 1980 Atari decided that Stunt Cycle would make a great 2600 game, so Bob Polaro was tapped to do the conversion.  Using the paddle controllers to simulate the original consoles bike grips, Bob made a near perfect port of the standalone console.  One change that was made to the game was the addition of color.  Since the original coin-op and home console were from 1976, the graphics were in Black and White which was standard at the time.  However Atari 2600 games had to have the option of color or B&W, some color was added to the game (although not much) to spruce it up.  After a few months of programming, Stunt Cycle was finished and ready to go.
It was around this time that marketing had "brilliant" idea; why not make Stunt Cycle into a Dukes of Hazzard game?  So Bob went back to work retooling the graphics to fit the new Dukes of Hazzard theme.  The cycle was changed into the General Lee, while the row of cars was changed 