Telepathy is one of two known prototype games that were developed for Atari's failed Mindlink controller.  The Mindlink was a headband that player wore on his head and plugged into the joystick port.  The idea was that the Mindlink's sensors would pick up any facial movements or muscle twitches the player would make.  Atari actually said that the Mindlink read the player's thoughts (sure it did...).  The problem was that the Mindlink didn't work very well in initial test runs, and even when it did work players would complain of headaches and dizziness from twitching their face all day.  After disappointing test results, the Mindlink controller was wisely canceled.
Telepathy was actually developed as a demo to show what kind games the Mindlink could do.  This "demo" is made up of seven different action screens held together by a loose "mine" theme.  Thankfully Telepathy is playable without the Mindlink controller (unlike Bionic Breakthrough) by pressing the joystick button.  It's unknown if Atari was thinking of releasing Telepathy sans Mindlink or if the joystick code was put in the game for playtesting purposes.
Unlike most games of the time, Telepathy has a demo mode which will run through all the screens if the game is left untouched.  Interestingly you can control the player in the demo using the joystick, it's unknown if this was intentional or just a bug.  The game starts off with a really cool sign which descends from the top of the screen telling you which mine your on.  After that you're whisked off to the first screen.
-The Plain-
This is the oddest screen in the whole game, because it doesn't seem to fit the theme of the rest of the screens.  You control a large white man with antennas sticking out of his head.  You must guide the man over the glowing triangles as he walks along the plain.  The glowing triangles appear in a weaving line (like a trail of bread crumbs) and will eventually lead to a large hole in the ground.  Each glowing triangle is initially worth 5 points, but each successive triangle you collect is worth an addition 5 points (5, 10, 15, 20, etc.).  If you miss a triangle the point value starts back over at 5.  The controls on this level are a bit strange, as the man will always want to move to the far left side of the screen.  You must struggle to keep him moving on the proper path, collecting triangles as he goes.  As you get to the higher mines the amount of triangles and the speed at which you walk increase.  The pattern of 