Thwocker is a game as strange as its name.  Written by Charlie Heath (of Reactor fame), Thwocker was described as "Joust with musical instruments".  While this isn't a bad description, it really doesn't illustrate all the gameplay elements that make Thwocker such an interesting game.  You control a little conductor (who happens to look like a bowling ball) who must bounce around a maze collecting musical notes for his song.  Along the way you must avoid various musical instruments that are out to get you (can't we all just get along?).  However you can't go grabbing just any musical notes, you must collect them in the proper order.  The current note type needed is shown at the bottom of the screen.  If you touch the wrong type of note you will ricochet off it, send your conductor flying across the screen (usually into a waiting enemy).  After collecting all the notes you must grab the treble clef symbol at the top of the maze to start the song.  Once the song starts to play your character will be able to touch enemies and notes for points (think of it as a power pellet) until the song ends.  After completing the song you can exit the level by touching the exit square.
The controls in Thwocker take a little getting use to, but they're not as tricky as they first seem.  The levels seem to be made out of some kind of springy material, so your character bounces all around the screen.  You can control how high you bounce by pushing up and down.  Pushing down will make the conductor take little bounces, while pressing up (as you touch the ground) will make him bounce really high.  You can stop bouncing all together by pressing the fire button, which will make the conductor sort of "skip" across the level.  You will need to master all these bouncing techniques to successfully complete the level.
Sadly Thwocker is incomplete as there is no way to exit the level.  It was thought that they player simply needed to touch the exit square after completing the song to finish the level, but this does not appear to be the case.  It appears that the code that allows you to destroy the enemy after completing the song also allows you to destroy the exit, so the game appears to be unwinnable.  However after careful examination of the game code, it appears there may be more to Thwocker than meets the eye.  Apparently the player must somehow "combine" the two voices of the song after it starts playing to exit the level.  Unfortunately we haven't figured out how this portion of t