Believe me when I say that this prototype is a complete mystery.  No programmer, no model number, and only a guess on the company  We don't even know the name of the game.  The only we have as to the identity of this prototype is the name Universal, which is silk screened onto the EPROM board.  We now speculate that this might have been a TCF game as another Universal style board was recently found in a TCF prototype.  If this is indeed a TCF game then it might be the mysterious Six Pack that was mentioned in early manuals (based on the racing movie of the same name), however the drag racing aspect fits closer to the TCF movie Heart Like A Wheel (pat yourself on the back if you actually remember that movie).  The only flaw with this theory is that no game was ever announced for that movie.
While we may never know the true identity of this game, it's a sure fire bet that it was meant to be a clone of Activision's Dragster (which is really a clone of Atari's Drag Race).  However unlike Dragster or Drag Race which are viewed from the side, this game is viewed from behind.  The perspective is similar to that of Activision's Enduro, right down to the vanishing point on the horizon.   It's immediately obvious from the graphics that a lot of work was being put into this game.
As previously mentioned, this game is really just a clone of Dragster.  The player must rev his engine and change gears as fast as possible without blowing the engine.  However unlike Dragster the player actually has control over his car and can steer it around the lane.  The faster the player goes, the further the car will move into the horizon and the harder it is to keep from crashing into the sides of the lane.  Careful steering is a must if you're going to win a race in this game.
The controls in this prototype are a bit screwy, and can easily frustrate someone who isn't familiar with them.  Starting the race is particularly annoying, as the player must press left, up, and right until the little man drops the white flag (or the light turns green).  Once the race has started, pressing up will cause the car to accelerate, while pressing down will change gears.  When pressing down the gear indicator will briefly change from N (Neutral) to C indicating that you are changing gears, continuing to press down will cause the car to shift into gears 1 through 4.
As you increase your speed the meter at the bottom of the screen will show your current engine temperature.  If you go too fast in a low