Professor Layton and his assistant Luke attend the unveiling of a new invention called a time machine.  The Prime Minister of London is volunteered as a test subject, but the machine explodes and there is no trace of him.  With the Prime Minister missing, London is in chaos!  Shortly after these events, the puzzle-solving pair receive a letter, which has apparently been sent by Luke's future self, stating that London is in serious trouble.  The Professor and Luke follow the directions in the letter, which leads them to their most exciting adventure yet...

Professor Layton and the Unwound Future is the third installment in the Professor Layton series. As with the previous games in the series, players explore game scenes by tapping on areas of interest with the stylus.  Doing so can cause Layton and Luke to examine objects, talk to characters, finding hint coins (which can be spent on hints for difficult puzzles) and most importantly, discover puzzles that can be solved.  Puzzles range from math, to logic, to riddles to sliding block puzzles, as well as many more different types.  There are also "secret" areas in scenes which, when tapped, may leave a puff of dust or a rustle of leaves.  Repeatedly tapping on these areas reveals a hidden secret, such as a bonus hint coin, or even a hidden, more difficult puzzle.

New to Unwound Future is the addition of the 'Super Hint'.  While as with the previous games, you can spend a hint coin to unlock up to three hints, there is also another option.  Once these three hints have been exhausted, for the price of two hint coins, you can unlock a more detailed 'Super Hint' as a last resort.  There are also three new minigames incorporated into the game.  In the Picture Book game, you must place the correct stickers in the right spots to make a story that makes sense.  In the Toy Car game, you must place tiles which navigate a toy car around the board, collect all the objects, and then reach the goal.  Finally, in the Parrot game, you must tie ropes onto pegs to help your parrot deliver parcels to people who have requested them.