Torch 2081 is a Tron-like game.
You're a pilot in the World Military Service on the planet Torch. What was once your only concern, the defense of your planet against the warriors of Craylon, has now changed to an even greater, more difficult challenge.  Fireballs, which are what remains of planets once destroyed during an earlier interplanetary nuclear war, are now bombarding the your planet's surface and destroying its inhabitants. You must now protect the surface of Torch.  Using an old S.D.G. (surface defense glider) designed for defense of the planet against the Craylon race, you must use it to construct metallic panels above the planet surface increasing the structure of the candar shield.  You must attempt to limit the flight area of the incoming fireballs by flying from panel to panel and edge to edge of your territory constructing new panels while avoiding your ships destruction. 

The object of the game is to shield a required percentage of your territory in order to advance to the next level. Receive points for shielding areas of the playfield. By using the joystick you are able to move your glider around the perimeter of the playfield and all those panels which were created, but you cannot travel along the edges shared by panels. A protective panel is created by pressing the joystick button. There is also a limit to the flight time. This can be monitored by checking your fuel gauge on the screen. 

Remain safe by avoiding contact with the fireball and its deadly spitfires, contact with them means death of your glider. Another hazard is perimeter patrollers who trace the edge of new and old panels alike, in a berserk rage. These crystals patrol all of the perimeters of the shield seeking to destroy any and all life, even you. But creating panels can even be a dangerous task. The construction line contains a lot of energy and is very unstable. If your glider stands in any one place while constructing a panel, the energy may become unstable resulting in your demise. Be quick, be smart, be careful.