Arcade Video game published 40 years ago:

Carnival (c) 1980 Gremlin/Sega Ind., Incorporated.

CARNIVAL is a 1 or 2 player alternate action game that simulates a carnival shooting gallery. The playfield consists of three target rows, a rotating pipe wheel, a bonus message panel, and a 'special' target block.

The player uses a left right control to position a rifle at the bottom of the screen, and a shoot control to fire the rifle. Two rows of bullets at the bottom of the screen indicate the number of shots remaining to the player. Every time the player shoots, one of the bullets disappears from the screen. More bullets are given during the first round than the others, so, the inexperienced player will have a chance to enjoy the play.

The game ends when the player runs out of bullets. This can occur on any round. A round ends when the player clears the playfield of all targets. At this point, a special 'shoot the bear' sequence appears, and when this is finished the player proceeds to the next more difficult (and higher scoring) round. This is Gremlin's Multi-Phase design concept that keeps games challenging to players of all levels.

When a player completes a round (ending with 'shoot the bear' sequence), the screen flips to the other player. When the original player resumes play, he advances to the next level of difficulty, exactly as he would have if the screen had not flipped to the other player. This method allows the players to more directly compare their scores, since they are always within one round of each other. Note that the player who ends the game first does not necessarily lose--he might still have the higher score when the game ends.

The three target rows move in a horizontal line from left to right (top row), right to left (middle row) and left to right (bottom row). There are five types of targets. The rows move as a continuous band--the targets exiting the playfield from the right side of the bottom row reappear at the left of the top row. The point value for hitting a row target is indicated along the right side of the game--maximum points for a top row target, medium points for a middle row target, and minimum points for a bottom row target. These values increase from round to round.

Rabbits and owls are simple targets, which disappear when hit.

Numbered sign targets award additional bullets to the player when hit, as well as awarding the points indicated for the row. These targets appear only on the top two rows to make them relati