Arcade Video game published 40 years ago:

Megatack (c) 1980 Centuri.

SINGLE PLAYER GAME

The game-play sequence in MEGATACK consists of 4 or 5 turns (operator selectable) each of which lasts as long as the player can skilfully maneuver his spacepod to avoid destruction. When he loses a spacepod, the GIP message reappears, accompanied by the GIP sound, and displays the number of spacepods left. After the last spacepod is destroyed, the game-over sound is heard and the game-over message is displayed.

Assuming a (4) pod game, play begins with player-scores (00000) and at the top and the (3) best scores displayed across the bottom Eight (8) monsters appear in the upper portion of the screen and move towards the bottom, while dropping their bombs. The player uses his joystick control to move his spacepod across the bottom of the screen. The spacepod will start with the number (4) in the center and the number will decrease each time a spacepod is destroyed so that the number (1) will be in the center on the last round.

As the spacepod is moved across the bottom of the screen the player fires his laser energy-beams towards the left, right, and straight-up accompanied by an echoing laser sound effect. The laser beams have unlimited range, covering the entire play-field, and each spacepod has an unlimited number of shots. The (3) laser beams are fired simultaneously. Each fire-button must be released and pressed again to fire a second shot. Also, there is a slight "reload" delay so that beams cannot-be fired too rapidly.

Whenever a laser beam strikes a monster or a bomb, it explodes with a visual flash and an audio blast. If a monster is blasted, the player is awarded a 'kill' and his score is increased by the appropriate score (per the scoring menu when a bomb is blasted, no points are scored.  

When a spacepod is hit by a bomb, it explodes with a growing flash and a reverberating blast. When the spacepod gets too close to a monster, the monster jumps up and sporadically devours it while growling and burping, if a monster reaches the bottom, it bounces across the bottom in an attempt to devour the spacepod.

When all the monsters in a given round have been destroyed the screen will turn into a starfield, and small space rings will appear, which if not shot at, hit, and destroyed will grow in size. If any one (1) ring is allowed to reach a predetermined size, it will de-activate the spacepods laser gun, which during these rounds only fires straight up, lift t