Ganso JaJaMaru-kun is a remake of the NES platformer Ninja JaJaMaru-kun. It includes new levels and bosses that stretch the gameplay in novel ways.

Lord Namazu Dayuu has kidnapped JaJaMaru-kun's beloved Princess Sakura. This piratical lord is no laughing matter, despite his sadistically gleeful disposition, he possess an army of creatures drawn from Japanese folklore to prevent you from reuniting with your princess ever again.

The game is quite simple and plays, for the most part, much like its predecessor. Jajamaru-kun begins on the bottom of a three tiered horizontal field. On each level of this field there are two enemies on each tier. The tiers have weak brick points in that Jajamaru-kun can break by hitting them with his head while, a common trait for arcade heroes. Once a passage is made Jajamaru-kun can move through them as can enemies. To clear a level all enemies must be defeated, most enemies can be killed by having a shuriken thrown at them, the only weapon available without a power-up, some need to be stunned either by falling through a hole in a tier or by being jumped on. Enemy projectiles can also be canceled out by the shuriken. Being touched by an enemy projectile, or in a few cases an enemies body, will instantly kill Jajamaru-kun. After an enemy has been killed its spirit will ascend, you can grab this for extra points.

Each of these stages has a leader who will posses some special attribute and present a new sprite. After the level in which the leader appears he/she/it will show up in the following levels as a standard level enemy often a bit weaker. Each stage gives you two minutes to complete it, except bosses and special stages. When about one minute remains Lord Namazu will send an orb of fire onto the stage that will slowly home after Jajamaru-kun.

You start the game with two extra lives and three continues. More lives can be found in the game, or by accruing points.  

There are four levels in each game area, village, graveyard, castle and town, seaside and ship, and the hidden island. However it is not enough to kill all the enemies in a stage to progress to the next area. Each level has its a cherry blossom that will descend from the top of the screen at a certain point. If you should kill all the enemies before the blossom arrives or the blossom floats of the bottom of the screen you'll go onto the next level but have to return to get it later, in this case all the enemies will have returned. Collecting all four cherry blos