Arcade Video game published 21 years ago:

Street Fighter III - 3rd Strike: Fight For The Future (c) 1999 Capcom.

Street Fighter III 3rd Strike is a one-on-one fighting game for one or two players and is the second follow-up to "Street Fighter III", following "Street Fighter III: 2nd Impact". 

3rd Strike increased the character roster by adding five new characters, notably including the legendary Chun-Li. New characters Remy, Makoto, Q, and Twelve were also added, bringing the total number of playable fighters to twenty. Also re-introduced was the fan-favourite 'Destroy the Car' bonus stage. 

One of the new gameplay mechanics introduced in "3rd Strike" is the Guard Parry, also known as the 'Red Parry', which allows players to parry during guard stun, providing the timing is correct. Another new feature is after-match player evaluations in which the winner of a two-person match is graded in Offense, Defence, Tech and Extra. In single-player Arcade mode the player will always be evaluated, even in event of a loss. The grades range from E (lowest) to MSF, or Master Street Fighter (highest).

The single-player mode consists of fighting ten regular opponents, which includes a character-specific rival as the penultimate opponent and 'Gill' as the final boss for each of the characters except for Gill himself, whose final boss is Alex. Despite his status as a regularly selectable character, the CPU version of Q can only be fought in the single-player mode as a secret challenger. Clearing the game with every character, including Gill, unlocks the extra options, including infinite super arts, will be available for toggling on and off. The full roster of playable characters are as follows:

** Returning 2nd Impact characters **

AKUMA
Appears in 2nd Impact as a secret character and has a non-playable "Shin Akuma" version which can be selected in the Dreamcast version of the game in 2nd Impact. 

ALEX
The lead character of the Street Fighter III games. He fights with close-range wrestling and quick rushing attacks. His goal is to avenge the defeat of his friend, Tom, at the hands of Gill. 

DUDLEY
A dandy British boxer who, having been knighted since making a comeback and winning the championship title, enters the tournament to train for a contest that will be held in the presence of the British Royal Family. 

ELENA
An African princess who uses the fighting style of capoeira. She seeks to make new friends. 

HUGO ANDORE
A professional wrestler who wants to find a 