Arcade Video game published 38 years ago:

Star Trek - Strategic Operations Simulator (c) 1982 Sega.

STAR TREK is a 1- or 2-player SEGA Color X-Y video game with computerized speech synthesis. The player finds himself the Captain of the Starship Enterprise, his mission being to rid the universe of a number of threats to the United Federation of Planets.

STAR TREK has a unique method of displaying the information vital to the game play. This method involves the separation of the CRT into three completely separate screens.

The Scanner is where the player sees a top down or plan view of local space, with the Enterprise always in the center of this screen. The Viewer is where the player sees actual apparent 3-D images, as if he were looking out the ships front window. The Status screen displays player score in addition to Shield strength, number of Photon Torpedoes, and amount of Warp energy remaining.

The game begins by introducing Klingons, Starbases and the Enterprise into the Scanner with an exciting shrink down animation sequence. The Enterprise starts with 1 to 4 Shields and Photon Torpedoes (switch selectable). By actuating the rotary knob and depressing the Thrust button the player may maneuver about the Scanner screen.

In order to destroy enemies the player may use either of two weapons: Phasers (the Fire button) or Photon Torpedoes. Each has unique properties.
* Phasers are instantaneous, can destroy only one enemy at a time, and are in unlimited energy supply.
* Photon Torpedoes require time to travel, can destroy many enemies, and are in LIMITED supply. Displayed in the Status screen, Photon Torpedo supply appears as a red bar (squares).

For high speed, the player may depress the WARP button. While this button is held down the Enterprise moves very quickly and cannot be damaged in any way by anything. A blue bar in the Status screen displays the amount of Warp energy available, and shrinks as the Warp button is held down.

The Enterprise is shrouded by an automatic Shield, which protects the Enterprise from enemy fire and collisions. The Shields are displayed in the Status screen as green line segments (a bar). Once the strength of the Shields is depleted, the ship can sustain damage. When damaged, the Enterprise looses ship functions in the following order: Shields, Photon Torpedoes, Warp Drive. If all of these are damaged, the next hit will destroy the Enterprise and end the game.

In order to repair this damage the player may choose to doc