The Mega War, fought centuries ago, left the earth in global ruins. The 
destructive nuclear horrors unleashed upon the planet and its population 
created uncountable amounts of death and devastation. In the wake of this 
sweeping havoc arose the planet itself to retaliate against the violence 
forced upon it. Polar shifts and massive earthquakes swallowed entire 
continents. From seething seas and walls of water arose angry volcanoes, 
spewing flame and death into the sky. Hungry fires, searing blizzards, and 
brutal storms ran rampant across the planet's surface for years, in an attempt 
to wash away the man-made horrors that it was forced to endure. 
 
At last the earth settled into a new pattern, starting to find some 
semblance of balance and peace. The global changes had left a much harsher 
planet, and the remaining life forms adapted slowly to the new environment. 
The Earth's land masses, altered by man-made weaponry and ended through 
elemental means, had evolved into ten isolated provinces. The remaining 
populations within these new provinces found life difficult at first, but 
slowly evolution and natural selection allowed the human race to adapt and 
once again gain control of their destiny. Some of the provinces had strong 
natural forces, exposed through the abrupt upheaval, and the resourceful 
post-humans began to master these new powers. Other provinces continued to 
develop through the use of science and technology, creating elaborate life 
support systems and protection against the harsh environments. 
 
As the years progressed, eight of the provinces began to communicate and 
trade together. An alliance was formed and a global quasi-government was 
established. The social structure evolved into a mixture of medieval 
practices, hybrid technology, and barbarism and barter. 
 
Centuries have passed and the present day Earth finds mankind again at the 
brink of savagery and destruction. Life is now a series of hardships, 
deceptions, and lies for the members of the Provincial Alliance. The frozen 
tundra of Polaria and the volcanic Scorch are very close to all out war, 
halted only by the desolate, radioactive Death Zone that separates them. The 
Death Zone, once a founding member of the Planet Alliance, has remained silent 
for almost two centuries, hiding behind the mysterious and deadly red mists 
that define its borders. Obsel, the desert province, has been taken over by 
desperate and brutal female terrorists. The Ebony Coast, known