Arcade Video game published 39 years ago:

Challenger (c) 1981 Centuri.

CHALLENGER is the newest video game to be introduced by Centuri. With its vivid colors and lively setting, it is sure to lure the most ardent player into game action.

The game consists of 16 sectors (rounds) of play. Sector 1 begins with Large Energy Rings floating randomly across the screen. The Spaceship must avoid colliding with the Rings, or it will explode into a starburst of brilliant colors. The Spaceship dodges the Energy Rings by moving right or left across the playfield, while bursting them with the Spaceship's 3-directional guns. Bursting the Large Rings (100 points) breaks them into Medium Rings. Bursting the Medium Rings (200 points) breaks them into Small Rings. Bursting the Small Rings (400 points) causes them to disintegrate.

The Spaceship is further protected by a feature called a 'Warp' button. By depressing this button, the Spaceship will relocate from the top or bottom of the screen to the opposite side.

If the Spaceship is in ultimate danger of being destroyed, releasing its Super Bomb will wipe out all the objects on the playfield, and add the point value of the objects to your score. Use of the Super Bomb is lost, if the ship is destroyed first. Only one Super Bomb is awarded per Spaceship.

At any time, a colorful Space Bogey resembling a Worm may appear on screen and proceed to chase the Spaceship. If the Worm is destroyed by Spaceship fire, or dodged successfully for several seconds, a 'clang' is heard and the Worm (500 points) wriggles off the screen in a bright red hue of embarrassment. If the Spaceship is caught by the Worm, a bell is sounded, and the astronaut is chased out of his ship in pursuit of safety.

At random time intervals a Bonus Bug will walk across the playfield, stop, and count down a Bonus Number. This number is equal to 100 times its value. To receive this Bonus, the Spaceship must link with the nose of the Bonus Bug.

When the Spaceship has survived 50 Seconds of playing time, it now enters the challenges of the next sector.

The remaining 15 sectors are played in the same manner as Sector one. The differences include that each succeeding sector increases in difficulty. The Energy Rings increase in number and move faster across the screen making them harder to dodge. Also there are several Space Bogeys introduced in the first 8 sectors. They also increase in number with advancement through each sector. Some of the Space Bogeys resemble