20 em 1 (20 in 1) is a compilation of twenty previously unreleased games in a single cartridge, which came bundled with Tec Toy's Master System III Compact (Master System II in Europe and US). The games included are:
The player is a construction worker trying to get falling tools with a bucket. He must get as many as he can until the time runs out.
2. The player is what looks like an alien machine, side scrolling over a planet collecting food and avoiding obstacles such as bombs. He must get as many as he can until the time runs out.
3. A skateboarding side scrolling game: the player must run as far as you he while avoiding obstacles such as holes in the street, until the time runs out.
4. The player is what seems to be a flea, running and jumping while the screen scrolls over a mountain of blocks, avoiding to get stuck behind the hills.
5. The player is a mouse trying to catch the cheese pieces that fall from the shelves. In order to do so, he can jump (by pressing button 1), and he must get as many as he can until the time runs out.
6. The player is a diver on a sunken ship, getting coins which fall from above, while avoiding being caught by a shark. He must get as many as he can until the time runs out.
7. A motocross racing game: the player must run down the road while avoiding obstacles trying to reach the next checkpoint before the time runs out.
8. An arcade racing game: the player must run down the street while avoiding getting hit by the other cars, until the time runs out.
9. The player is a little Brazilian Indian sailing his boat on a river, while avoiding obstacles such as rocks and arrows. He must get as far as he can until the time runs out.
10. A helicopter combat game. The player must shoot (by pressing button 1) the enemy helicopter as much as he can, avoiding to get hit, until the time runs out.
11. The player is a frog trying to catch the insects that fall from the sky. He must get as many as he can until the time runs out, while jumping from one victoria amazonica to another. He must project his tong (by pressing the button 1) in order to get the insects.
12. A classic space shooter. Fly your spaceship while the screen scrolls down, avoiding obstacles and shooting as many spaceships as he can, until the time runs out.
13. A side scrolling flight shooter. The player must shoot (by pressing button 1) as many balloons as he can while avoiding getting hit by other planes, until the time runs out.
14. A roller skating side scrolling game: t