After defeating the Dragão Gospe Fogo (in Mônica no Castelo do Dragão), Mônica was kidnapped by Capitão Feio, but before disappearing, she called her friends to rescue her!

Turma da Mônica em: O Resgate (which translates to "Mônica's Gang in: The Rescue") is a modified version of Wonder Boy III: The Dragon's Trap, with Wonder Boy's hero, Tom-Tom, replaced by Mônica, a famous Brazilian comic character. 

In Wonder Boy III: The Dragon's Trap, Tom-Tom was cursed by the Dragon and turned into a Lizard-Man. In order to regain his original human form, he would have to find the Salamander Cross. Through his way, he would find Dragons which, when defeated, would curse Tom-Tom again, turning him into other animal forms. In Turma da Mônica em: O Resgate, when Mônica disappears, Chico Bento (Lizard-Man in Wonder Boy III) shows up and starts the gang's quest. After defeating each dragon, a new friend takes place in the quest. The other friends are Bidu (formerly Mouse-Man), Cebolinha (formerly Piranha-Man), Magali (formerly Lion-Man) and Anjinho (formerly Hawk-Man).

Each of Mônica's friends has different abilities and weapons, such as:

1. Chico Bento - Shotgun
2. Bidu - Bone and shield, can walk on walls
3. Cebolinha - Sword and shield
4. Magali - Rolling pin, attacks by swinging it in an arc.
5. Anjinho - Fire sword and shield, flies

Other characters from the comic books also appear in this game, such as Cascão (as the shop keeper), Franjinha (as the Doctor) and the great villain, Capitão Feio (formerly Vampire Dragon).

Mônica's friends can side-scroll to any place of Terra dos Monstros (Monster Land), but some places will be reachable only by a certain member of the gang, due to their specific abilities or weapons. They can attack (button 1) or jump (button 2), and you can access their statistics screen by pressing the PAUSE button. There you can equip items and weapons, as well as special attacks, such as fire balls, tornadoes, arrows, boomerangs and thunder strikes (all released by pressing down and 2 together). Enemies defeated will drop gold and keys, allowing access to new areas. Collecting stones will raise the characters' Charisma, bettering the odds of getting items and gold. At each town you reach you'll receive a password, allowing you to continue the game from that point.

All the text in game is in Portuguese.