6-in-1 is an unlicensed game that contains a set of six different game in one cartridge that were not released separately. Most of these games is known to have a major resemblances to other games such as Soko-Ban and Pang. It includes the six following games.

Cosmos Cop: A game that is heavily inspired by Space Harrier, in which the player takes control of the Cosmos Cop with the mission to take out an alien terrorist organization in outer space . You have to fly past all of the obstacles and shoot all of the enemies throughout five stages, with the final sixth stage being a boss fight.

Magic Carpet 1001: This game is a side-scrolling shooter where you are on a magic carpet, armed with only a bow and some arrows to defend yourself from the enemies in the sky throughout four different levels.

Balloon Monster is similar to the game Pang. A huge, bouncing bubble is attacking you from the sky and you have to shoot at it before it kills you. When you try to shoot it, it divides into smaller bubbles, making it harder. This game contains 50 different levels to play through.

Adam and Eve: in this game, you are Adam from the Bible. This game is nothing more than a Balloon Fight clone where the player is supposed to rid the screen of all the floating snakes to make it to the next stage. The player must defeat the floating snakes by popping their balloons then their parachutes. The game also contains an air pump powerup which heals the players damaged balloons. This game contains 40 different levels to play through.

Porter is a puzzle game similar to the game Soko-Ban. In this game, you have to move all of the boxes onto the stars in a limited amount of time, in order to make it to the next stage. This game contains 25 different levels to play through.

Bookyman: is similar to the arcade game Make Trax where you are a bug and you have to paint the entire maze before you are caught by the other enemies. This game contains 8 different levels to play through, with enemies getting increasingly faster the higher the level.