The third in the Paroidus series, it's the same gameplay and zaniness that substantiated the first two games. Gameplay itself is a copy (a parody rather) of Konami's famous Gradius series in that the screen scrolls from left to right (most times) and you maneuver around the screen destroying waves of enemies and avoiding obstacles. Unlike previous Parodius titles, this game contains a difficulty adjustment option, allowing the player to make things easier... or harder. Also unique to this parodius title is a bit of japanese digital voice that shouts out various things at you while you play. Survival throughout the level earns you a boss fight, which frequently includes some of the strangest characters in the game. Make no mistake, this *is* Gradius,  but with all sorts of strange graphics, music and references to other Konami games... So in other words, it's Parodius!

There are now more power-ups than ever including the standard power-up (red, used to upgrade weapons), the shield power-up (blue) and a variety of different coloured bells. Green Bells will make you huge on the screen, Yellow Bells are worth points (points in turn are worth extra lives),  Blue Bells are "big bombs" that clear the screen of enemies/shots and can be saved until you need them, White Bells will give your character a megaphone that will shout out japanese phrases, the characters of the phrases themselves can be used to damage enemies (the power of words!), The Red Bell stockpiles you with three point-defense lasers... only one of which can be activated at a time and disappear after a short while. Finally the purple bell will clear the screen of all but the strongest enemies... and will turn them into power-ups.

This time around there are 16 different characters to chose from and the power-ups and weapons that they use are more unique than ever. Several familiar "faces" return and they've brought along friends to share in the party:
Vic Viper: The "gradius ship" appears once again in this gradius parody, equipped with it's traditional gradius weapons
2. Lord British: The "other" Gradius ship and arguably the more famous of the two. Lord British has weapons similar to Vic but quite different also.Missiles and shields work differently for instance. And Lord British uses a Ripple gun instead of a double shot.
3. Pentaro: It just wouldn't be a Parodius game if Pentaro wasn't involved. Originally from Konami's Penguin Adventure, Pentaro retains the same abilities from previous Parodiu