Alternative World Games Is a series of mini games based around the theme of an Olympiad for the non-sporting minded. It is intended to be a spoof on all serious sporting simulations.nnnnThere are eight games in this compilation, some are one player and some are two player. The minimum number of players names that can be entered is two, the game setup insists that a second player is named because thee are two player games. The maximum number of names that can be entered is six.nnnnThe game menu selection screen has been designed to look like a bank of nine TV screens. Each TV is displaying a sporting channel name. The player selects the channels to be played and presses 'Fire'. This causes an animation to commence on the appropriate TV. The player can select either one or all eight games. Channel nine is used to allow the player to select between competition and practice modes.nnnnAt the end of each game the scores are displayed. After the last game has been played the game displays the medal table, there can be a long wait while the game reads to the end of the tape to find this program. When the selected game(s) have been played the medal table is displayed and the gaming session is over. If further game-play is desired, e.g. for a rematch, then the whole game must be reloaded and the player selection process has to be repeated.nnnnThe eight games are;nnThe Sack RacennThis race takes place in Mexico. The objective is to be the first across the finish line. Speed is achieved by pressing left / right alternately while using the up / down keys to steer around open man-hole covers which are the obstacles in this event. Players can play against each other or the computer. nnThe Pile Of PlatesnnThis race takes place in Pisa, Italy. Each player takes it in turn to compete. before starting the up / down keys are used to set the number of plates to be carried. Once set the same keys are used to determine the speed at which the character moves, too fast and plates will fall. A countdown timer starting at 100 is used to ensure that the race is completed in a reasonable time. When the characters are moving the left / right keys can be used to move the characters arms to counteract the wobble. Points are scored for speed of completion, number of plates carried and points are lost for plates dropped, thus a player who carries eight plates across successfully will score more points than a player who started with 30 and finished with 14. nnBoot ThrowingnnThis event takes