The player starts off on the garage, where cars and parts may be purchased from the newspaper. New parts that are purchased must be installed by the player by entering the hood of or going under the car and then removing a series of screws to remove parts of the engine and transmission. Then, these parts must be re-installed in order and the bolts replaced, otherwise the car will be undrivable. To install tires, the car must be jacked up. While racing, the car will eventually run out of fuel, which the player must obtain from the gas station. The player will proceed from the garage to the local diner in order to find some competition to race. Races take place on either a dragstrip (drag race option) or an open country road. Wagers on the drag races can be set from "Just for kicks!" (no wager) to $10 and $50. On the road race wagers can be set from $25 to $100 and "pink slips" (the winner receives the loser's car). When the race starts, the player must wait for a signal to be given to go or else they forfeit the race. If the player's car doesn't have an automatic transmission, they can either "drop their transmission" during the race if they keep accelerator pressed while shifting gears, or blow the engine if the tachometer dial is in the red zone for too much. In either case, the player would lose the bet they made and would be transported back to the garage, where they have to get new parts for their car. If the player crashes their car during the race, they can get the car fixed for a fee, or have it scrapped and receive the scrap value. However, if they get involved in a serious crash or the car has already been repaired several times before, they are only able to receive the car's scrap value. During the road race the player would occasionally also get chased by police. If the player attempts to evade the police and keeps speeding, they will be fined $75 if caught. If the player slows down, they will be fined $20. Either instance results in the race being forfeited. If the player can't afford to pay the fine, they will be sent to prison. If the player doesn't have a car and their amount of money is not enough to buy the cheapest car, the game is over. The challenge is to beat The King in a road race. If you win, you get the King's car and girlfriend, and you become the new King.