The Big Top O' Fun circus is in deep trouble: due tonight is the payment of a $10.000 loan to the Big Greedy Bank. The evening's performance must bring in that money or the circus will be seized. The bank does not play fair, though: they send the evil clown Fiendish Freddy to sabotage the acts.

The performance consists of six different events. There is a practice mode for single events, and up to five players can compete in the full game, but must reach the $10.000 on their own, not together. The money is awarded by a jury after each act.

The acts are:

High Diving: Horace the High Diver must jump from a platform and land on a target down below. While falling, Horace must be kept spinning by moving the joystick while at the same time staying over the target. Once he is spinning fast enough, he must perform a pose indicated on the screen by pulling the joystick in a certain direction, after which a new pose is required, continuing until Horace hits the target (or the ground). If completed successfully, the next dive begins from a higher platform, giving Horace more time to perform the poses, while the target gets consecutively smaller. Money is awarded for performing poses if the target is hit. Freddy comes into play if Horace doesn't make a pose in time: he blows Horace off course with a giant fan.
Juggling: Jeffy Joe drives across the arena on a unicycle and must catch and juggle items thrown to him by his seal assistant. The act ends successfully after a time limit is up and fails if Joe drops five items. Joe must be maneuvered so that the items land in his outstretched hands. Pushing fire throws the item in his left hand and moves the items in the right hand to the left. In higher levels, a baby comes into play which Joe must throw in such a way that it lands in a carriage. Freddy tries to sabotage the act by distracting the seal and then throwing dangerous items like bombs and missiles. If either is dropped, the act is over. Bombs however can be thrown back to Freddy.
Trapeze: Finola must cross the big top by swinging on bars. She gains momentum through joystick moves and must then jump to the next bar by hitting fire at the correct moment. After a while, Finola must also maneuver through obstacles like paper targets and flaming hoops, which sometimes bob up and down. If Finola takes too long hanging on a bar without going forward, Freddy will arrive flying via helicopter blades and cut the ropes.
Knife Throw: Knancy Knife has been blindfolded and st