The advanced civilization of the planet Somerset built a gigantic exploratory spaceship called Atlantis, and sent it to research the planet Earth. After the completion of its task, the ship submerged to an oceanic abyss. The D.A.G. ("giant-looking depredators"), a war-mongering civilization, took possession of Atlantis with the intention of conquering Somerset and the universe. Somerset sends a hero to rescue Atlantis from the enemy, and return it home.

Rescue from Atlantis is a Spanish side-scrolling action-adventure game divided in three loads:

1.  In the first load, the hero must find a way to gain entrance to the camouflage city built on top of Atlantis. This level starts with the bathysphere being dropped from the sky into the ocean by a spaceship. Once it hits the bottom, the player can guide it by using O and P to move left and right, respectively. Q makes it go up, and A cycles through its inventory. The bathysphere is armed with a laser gun that can be fired by pressing the SPACE bar. Hitting M ejects the protagonist from the bathysphere as to explore more strait entrances. Once out, M also serves as the GET, DROP, ENTER and USE button. There are objects scattered on the sea floor to be collected and used. The bathysphere also comes with some useful paraphernalia:

? A laser pistol to kill the enemy and the sea life;
? A jetpack to reach higher places;
? A portable computer to connect with the main one in Atlantis;
? A mould to fabricate gold bars. There are some gold nuggets on the submersed caves (to melt them the player has to find a source of heat);
? A first-aid kit that can only be used once.

The player investigates a complex of aquatic tunnels while collecting the needed tools for the task ahead. At the top of the screen there are two horizontal bars. The leftmost indicates the oxygen level (there are places on the levels that replenish it). The one in the right side is the bathysphere fuel level, once empty the vessel will stop moving. The player must find sources of fuel to make it swim again. Amongst the two bars sits the inventory of both the bathysphere and the character. At the bottom of the screen there are two scores and a plant between them. The plant is the energy level of the character, it changes with every hit he/she/it receives. The left score is the current score, the one on the right is the top score. In this first load, the main danger comes from the creatures of the sea: octopuses, sharks and abyssal fishes take a bit o